hi my name is Chris hopwood I'm the
global marketing manager for GT bicycles
and we're here in beautiful park city
and lifeboat press camp I'm here to talk
to you
MTB are calm today about the new 2014 GT
fury obviously you've probably seen if
you follow downhill racing role in the
last two World Cups both GE and Rachel
of them the double-double we can't be
more happy about that it just shows that
the fruits of our labor are paying off
so details about the frame that we're
going to get into obviously number one
it's not carbon like our old bike was
you know one of the reasons that we were
able to do that is you know prototyping
being able to change things and the
first year of a design it was really
nice to be able to have an aluminum
frame but the difference there is that
number one is bike the frame alone is
300 grams lighter than last year's
carbon frame it's 500 grams lighter than
last year's alloy frame it's 26 percent
stiffer and the head tube and three four
percent stiffer in the bottom bracket so
those numbers are pretty staggering I
know it's hard to believe but all in all
it is true we've done the testing
ourselves our own bikes versus our own
bikes and those are the numbers that
basically came back so what you've been
able to see is a bike that will be able
to be proved itself on the World Cup
circuit and that is what we built it for
other main features of the new design
here is that we basically took away the
majority of the forgings on the frame
one of the things that we want to do in
order to light it up was basically with
all the forgings they're very strong but
they're also extremely heavy and they're
very expensive so in order to keep cost
down be able to get the bikes at a
little bit lower price point using a lot
of tubing and a lot of shaping get you
to a point where you have a lot of
hollow pieces very very strong but very
lightweight and that's down to
everything including you know hollow
disc brake post mounts that are then
welded closed as they're put onto the
frame the main key features of the new
suspension
is that we basically took the ID system
and changed it around a lot the one main
thing we wanted to do was put as much of
the riders weight as possible onto the
main axle this in turn allows the rear
suspension to be able to do what it
needs to do this is a rearward arcing
rear suspension really similar to the
sensor and the force that we just came
out with in 2014 but the pedaling
characteristics is of this bike are a
lot different when you look at what you
know downhill racers are dealing with on
a World Cup level I mean even at
national level or just going to the
resort you're typically pedaling on a
bike and on trails that are really rough
really rocky and so you need to have as
a suspension there's me soaking that up
but with our independent drivetrain
system and what it allows us to do is to
design a bike that pedals extremely well
over very very rough terrain instead of
designing the bike to pedal really well
say in a parking lot which has been
proven obviously you've seen it on the
World Cup but all in all it's very very
efficient and it's very small we were
able to tuck it up inside the frame and
make it a lot stiffer and that's where
you're seeing a lot of that stiffness
increase from last year's previous model
other things we have a fully
asymmetrical rear end on the bike the
non-drive side of the bike is a lot
thicker and sits a lot more off to the
left side of the frame and then the
right side and that's dudas so that we
can get great chain line great stiffness
as well as make sure that we were using
every piece of the bottom bracket area
as we possibly could and then there was
some really major geometry changes we
shortened the rear end a bunch really
lengthen the top tube it's a lot longer
and so we also designed the bikes around
a 30 millimeter stem so the front center
of these bikes are very long but with
the shorter stem it's going to give you
a lot of control these bikes stock will
come up with a 30 50 mil adjustable so
you can have the 30 you can have a bike
that will feel very similar to your
previous bike if you want to start
pushing the limits and go a little bit
further like G and Rachel are doing to
basically try and find that extra little
second and the extra a little bit of
confidence on an early descent
you can adjust the stem outward
all-in-all on the model that you see in
front of me will be the new fury team
we're gonna have four models in the
lineup we'll have the World Cup which
will be at Atherton replica bike
essentially you're going to have a fury
team model which will be a Z level bike
then you're gonna have a fury expert as
well as a fury elite they should be
ranging in price from about 3,000
dollars up to about 75 to $8,000
those are approximate prices so don't
take me for a word on that the top two
models will carry the new Fox 40 rav4 X
with air spring we'll have the expert
will have a Fox 40 as well but with a
coil spring and then when you get down
to the elite level bike at the low price
range you'll get into a raw shocks I
believe it's a domain with a triple
clamp so if you want to get out there
and you want to have a lot of fun and
you were looking for a new downhill bike
make sure you go to GT bicycles comm and
check it out